Well, I think my refrigerator's dying.
Oh, no, I had a similar thing in England.
We came back and we have a garage freezer and we came back and it was just slightly defrosted.
Everything was cold, but there was, you know, water.
There was juice in the bottom of the frozen chicken bag and stuff.
It's no good.
No, I got sort of like this weird sense that something was wrong.
I was walking by the fridge and I heard this click, click, click.
Oh, that ain't right.
No.
And I've been thinking about ways to put a temperature sensor in there for a while.
You know, it's been on my mind and I hear this click.
So I think, OK, my feeling that doesn't feel right.
It feels like the tater tots are a little squishy.
You know, shouldn't be like that.
So the wife gets up this morning and I tell her, hey, look, this is what I think's going on.
Although by this point, I'd heard the compressor kick in.
So it was working again.
I thought, hmm, and it definitely was cooling down again.
But here's the moment that was a victory.
Alex, you know, she says to me, she's like, hey, couldn't you put a temperature
sensor in there and then we'd get historical trends at home assistant?
The wife asked that.
Yes.
What a win is that, right?
That is amazing.
And I was like, right, you are.
So then I was like motivated, even though I was running late to get down to the studio.
I was like, no, I'm going to get this set up right now because she's on board.
We're getting this done.
I you know, so I did a similar thing this week.
I know you've gone Zed wave.
I actually went Zigbee.
I bought a couple of the Akara sensors.
Yeah.
And I put a couple in the freezer and they're connected up to home assistant.
Real easy time will tell how long batteries last at minus 17 Celsius, though.
OK, so you are doing battery power.
OK, interesting.
Yeah, huh.
I right now am getting after 24 hours.
I am getting 54% battery remaining.
Oh, my.
And there are two little Duracell lithium batteries, two of them little lithium batteries.
So I don't know how long this thing is going to last.
My kitchen fridge sensor is at 100% and the freezer is at 98 and they were both powered
up at exactly the same time yesterday.
So, oh, we'll see.
We'll see.
Yeah, I'm hoping that mine stays at 54%, you know, like it just like the sensor just got
a big drop because the cold who knows.
But yeah, the Z wave does seem to be making it through the walls of the fridge, which
I just wasn't so sure about.
And, you know, I thought this would be a great way.
The wife was completely right.
Like, I got to know because to pull this fridge out.
First of all, it's like built into the cupboards of the RV and it's bolted in.
So it has it have to be.
So I'd have to take it to a shop.
They'd have to have a couple of guys remove this fridge.
Then I'd have to have an RV tech come over or a fridge tech come over and try to repair
it.
And if they can't repair that fridge, they have to remove the slide or remove the windshield
and take the fridge out that way because it's bigger than the door is wide.
Oh, no.
And it's just a regular old residential fridge they put in these things.
It's not like it's been like prepared to go down the road or anything.
It's just it's just a house fridge that they like.
Hey, people like bigger fridges.
Let's put it.
Let's put a house fridge in the RV.
You'd have to take it out the windscreen.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, that's like the stuff of nightmares.
Yeah.
So I'm going to watch it carefully for a bit.
I may even get like a battery pack and just try to run a flat USB cord into there.
When I was Googling online for this, people were really kind of coming up with a.
Pretty clever DIY solutions for this, where essentially they come up with a really thin
cable that goes to a remote sensor that they mount inside the fridge, and then they have
the transmitter and the power source outside the fridge.
You could do that with an ESP and ESP board pretty easily.
Yeah, yeah, that would be pretty great.
And then perhaps I'd build my own cloud after going to visit a cloud guru, the leader in
learning for cloud, Linux and other modern tech skills.
They have hundreds of courses and thousands of hands on labs.
Go get certified.
Go get hired and get learning the cloud guru dot com.
It's been a busy week in the Kretschmar household.
I'll tell you what you've accomplished, something that I have thought about doing a number of
times, and that is I inherited, I think much like you did, a set of hues lights that my
wife had at her office with its little hue hub.
And it's not great.
I don't like having a separate piece of equipment pulling power.
And I think there's a way I could get rid of that sucker.
So I know you did a lot of things this week, but one of them, I believe, was you eliminated
the hues hub from your hue lights.
Absolutely.
Yes.
So as part of the Zigbee fridge temperature sensor stuff, I bought myself one of these
sewn off CC 2531 Zigbee sticks, USB sticks that goes into my home assistant box with
Proxmox.
It was a very easy pass through.
You just plug the thing in and then click.
Add USB device and it just shows up in home assistant.
That bit couldn't have been easier, but I was finding that the range from the sewn off
stick was pretty terrible.
I'm talking 10, 12 feet terrible.
Not good at all when it's in the basement.
Yeah.
So I sort of thought to myself, aren't these Philip Hue bulbs that I have already got 10
of in the house?
Because when I emigrated, I bought at Black Friday, I bought a 10 pack that came with
the starter pack that came with a hub.
It was a pretty good deal, as I recall.
I can't remember how much it was, but I remember thinking at the time, oh, this isn't too bad.
But anyway, so I've got a bunch of Zigbee devices.
And as part of the stuff I did for my dad's in England last month, the guy behind my local
bytes told me that any permanently powered Zigbee device act as a mesh repeater in the
network.
And I was like, I could use these lamps to increase the range of my little USB stick.
So why don't I try unpairing from the Philips Hue app, just one bulb.
I'm going to try just one, see how it goes.
Within a minute, I'd unpaired and repaired it with ZHA and home assistant.
And I was like, whoa, that was easy.
So I thought to myself, well, okay, you've done one bulb in one minute.
Why don't you go and do the next bulb in the rear hallway that's just next to the fridge?
And then you've got two in a row that are then, and hopefully it'd be better for the
fridge sensors.
And then I thought, well, what you've done two.
And I went all in and I did all 10 yesterday evening and the performance of the cheap sewn
off CC2531 was good when I had two or three devices.
But by the time I got to the 10th bulb, not so good.
I'm talking, I'd press a button in home assistant and I'd wait and I'd wait and I'd be like,
did that register?
Is this working while we hit?
Hello.
Are we a light bulb?
Are we a crisp packet?
Are we a train?
What are we?
Oh yes, that's right.
We're a light bulb.
I'm going to turn off now.
And yeah, so I've gone ahead and ordered one of these, what's it called?
A Combee version two, based off a recommendation of one of the guys in discord.
So that's going to show up tomorrow.
So maybe I'll report on that in the next episode.
But yeah, I mean, I've been, I've been pretty pleased with how easy Zigbee, you know, deep,
the, the de-hue hub migration thing.
I've been pleased with how easy that was, to be honest with you, you know, I've been
experiencing some delays on occasion, not all the time, not consistently, but I've been
experiencing delays on my Z-Wave network.
And I just kind of put the, put it all together that, well, yeah, I've recently, I've recently
added a couple of more sensors and a couple of more powered smart plugs that do power
monitoring.
And so they're chatting more over Z-Wave and Z-Wave isn't super high bandwidth.
And, hmm, I don't know.
That's interesting.
I kind of just assumed it was my Pi, which controller do you use?
I don't remember what it's been branded as, but it's based on the Sigma Designs Z-Wave
USB adapter.
And I've been pretty happy with it because it's got a big old antenna on it.
And so it gets pretty good range.
And then like Zigbee, each Z-Wave device also that's powered acts as a repeater.
And so I didn't even really stop to consider that maybe I've overloaded my network.
I've got, I've got 14 Z-Wave nodes now, which doesn't seem like a ton to me.
But after hearing your experience, maybe I am kind of in the range.
Maybe I, maybe I need a more robust controller.
Yeah.
I would say with the chatty devices in particular that are doing, you know, an update every
second or so that's going to chew through the bandwidth that's available pretty quickly.
Yeah.
I mean, not to fanboy a bunch more about matter because it's not even here yet.
But this is something I hope matter solves because matter is an IP-based protocol.
And a couple of things that are nice about that is it means you could route it over an
IP network where you could have a lot more bandwidth, right?
You could, you could do that.
But additionally, a lot of devices already have thread radios built in and pretty much
all the vendors are going to use thread as the channel to communicate.
And that has pretty good bandwidth too, compared to what we're used to.
I hope we start to see more vendors support it.
Uh, Amazon just kind of reaffirmed their commitment this week as we're recording that they're,
that they're all in and that they're going to use thread and they're going to support
matter with the echo devices.
So my hope is to ride this out for like another year and a half, two years, and then switch
over to matter-based devices for pretty much all this stuff.
Could be just a dream though.
Cynical old Alex over here doesn't believe a word of it.
I know.
I don't think matter is going to solve anything.
It's just going to be yet another standard.
Maybe I'll be wrong.
Hopefully I'm wrong.
I hope, but I don't know.
You know, who's getting me all hyped is Paulus from Home Assistant.
Like the last couple of live streams he's been talking about it and he makes it, he
made an analogy that kind of worked for me.
He said, you can think of matter as what USB was for PC peripherals back in the early aughts
in the nineties.
You remember when we had like colored, a colored green and purple for PS2 and, and printers
had different types of connectors and they had SCSI on the Mac and you know,
Mac and then USB came along and it was like a minimum base set of standards of connectivity
that everything supported.
And then vendors would build on top of that and they will just like that with matter as
well.
But you kind of just at least had a few fundamentals that everybody agreed on with USB and it,
it really took things to the next level when it comes to plug in devices into your computer.
And he thinks, and I hope he's right, that that's what matter will be for IOT devices
in the home.
As long as we don't end up with a USB-C style USB implementation, then we'll be okay.
Yeah.
Something tells me it's going to be a lot more like USB-C Alex.
Huh.
Well, that's a pretty good motivation for me to actually get off my Duff and get my
Zigbee radio set up.
Even if I don't have many Zigbee devices, I could get rid of my Hughes bridge, save
a little power.
Okay.
So while we're kind of getting close to it, you know, we got to talk about it.
You can almost feel it in the air Black Friday.
It's like a holiday for you and I know you're always getting ready to shuck drives.
For those of you who maybe are new to the show and you don't know, this is what Alex
loves to do.
He loves to get a great price on like a large external drive.
Cause you know, sometimes they'll put some real monsters in there and then you shuck
the external case and you load it up in your file server or something like that.
So I imagine you must be getting prepared.
There's my methodology, right?
Okay.
When I emigrated, I purchased about 10, 10 terabyte hard drives and they were all purchased
on the same week from, you know, the three or four different best buys that we have in
Raleigh because it was a limit of two or three per customer.
So I was like, screw that.
I'm just going to go and drive to the next one and buy two more over there.
So I'm a little bit concerned about the bathtub curve.
For those that don't know what that is, typically a drive will fail either right at the beginning
of its life or right at the end of its life, you know, be that three, four, five, six years,
whatever it is.
But given that these drives have been exposed to the same environment, you know, they've
all been in the same case, the same temperatures, they've been exposed to the same, you know,
manufacturing potential problems.
They've all got the same firmwares, et cetera, et cetera.
The chance is if one or two go, that all 10 go seems higher to me than if I was to spread
it out.
Yeah, you're definitely going to, if you have one failure, you're probably going to have
a couple of failures at least.
At least.
Yeah.
So what I'm doing to kind of mitigate that is my primary media server, like I say, has
has 10 drives in it.
Two are used for a ZFS mirror.
One is used for SNAT RAID parity, which leaves me seven drives for actual data.
I've got a mixture now of 10 terabytes and 12 terabytes in there.
So it's somewhere in the region of 70 to 80 terabytes of raw actual usable storage.
So I'm not really hurting for space, but I've kind of set a benchmark of 200 bucks per drive
as my kind of line in the sand to say, right, I'm not spending more than 200 per whatever
size drive I can buy for that.
That's what I'll buy this year.
And obviously there are some considerations with that because with ZFS, you have to have
the same size drives.
Mismatched drives, you will lose a couple of terabytes here, a couple of terabytes there
if you're not careful.
And with SNAT RAID as well, the parity disk has to be as big or bigger than the largest
data disk.
So every time I change capacities, I've got to factor that into my mind.
And so when I'm looking at what do I buy, I think, well, I have 10 drives.
In my experience, hard drives last for about five years.
Why don't I just buy two drives every year?
And then that way, when I upgrade the parity drive, I actually also get a nice bump on
my data disks as well.
And then I can retire the existing drive to either go into my backup server, which is
part of my home lab, or I can just wipe them and sell them on eBay for a few pennies.
And this year, I was able to pick up a couple of 14 terabyte easy stores from Best Buy for
$200 a pop.
Wow, that's great.
Now these are three and a half inch drives.
Yeah, well, I mean, they come, it's just really annoying to be honest.
I wish they would just sell these drives without the USB casing on them, but they don't.
So, hey, here we are.
What happens is you buy a retail box from Best Buy and it has a big plastic shell around
the drives with a USB to SATA conversion drive and a power supply.
And I've got to imagine there's quite a few dollars worth of extra cost in assembling
these things, putting them in a nice fancy case with a power supply, et cetera.
Why not just pass the saving on to me and say, look, you know, this is a drive that
was destined for an easy store.
Have it, but, you know, it's 20% cheaper than the retail model or something, I don't
know.
There's got to be a business reason, right?
Somebody who, somebody out there listening must know, let us know, selfhosted.show slash
contact.
Why won't they just sell us these drives directly?
I think it probably boils down to the fact that they know that the warranty claims are
going to be less from people that have shut drives because, you know, you've got to take
a few guitar picks and break some of the plastic tabs open.
And it can be, if you've not done it before, quite an intimidating process.
You're like, I've got $200 on my desk in front of me.
I don't want to break it.
I've heard a conspiracy.
What I've been told is that they are drives that for some reason they suspect have lower
quality to them.
Like maybe the boards had QA issues or something like that.
So they have the data that shows them that external drives don't run for as many hours
as their internal drives do, and so they fail less.
So they still think they're good enough for those use cases.
So they package them up, and they sell them off, and they figure it's good enough because
those users generally will run them for 80% less time than the people that have them built
in, so they'll never notice.
I've heard that, but I don't know if that's true.
I mean, we're never going to know if it's actually true or not, are we?
But it would make sense.
There'd be some MBA in an office somewhere, worked out a way that they would never notice
and worked out how can we bin these drives that have failed a certain level of QA testing.
Yeah, but you haven't really seen that bear out.
I mean, you've used quite a bit of shucks drives, and it's not like you have a lot of
drive failures.
Touch wood?
No, I haven't had.
I've had one actually fail, but I think that was a result of putting it into the Helios
64 because the data pins snapped off and I had to solder and it was a bit messy.
So that was an actual Alex booboo, not a drive booboo.
That's anecdotal, but your anecdotal evidence would seem to suggest that it hasn't led to
less reliable disk than I would say.
So far, so good.
Yeah, but then you've got to factor in that.
How much is a 14 terabyte drive on Newegg right now?
I'm going to go and look it up right now, real time.
So a comparable 14 terabyte drive on Newegg, a Western Digital Ultra Star, 14 terabyte
drive, three and a half inch drive.
$280 without the shell on it versus $200 at Best Buy for one with the shell on it.
There are some warranty differences.
This one has a five year warranty.
I think the drives that come in the case only have three years.
Factor that in as you will.
But even so, I mean, once you do the calculations over enough disks, you actually end up saving
quite a bit of money.
So even if a couple more fail, over time, you're still probably saving some cash.
Now, do you find you're having to do many or any kind of tricks these days for the
drives you're shucking?
No, I don't.
But that's simply because I built three years ago some custom SATA power connectors and
I just snipped off the three volt rail in there.
So whatever comes from my power supply may well have a three volt rail, but whatever
I plug into the disks doesn't, so it doesn't matter to me.
That is nice.
I'd like to mention our friends at a Cloud Guru have the Linux Web Services course.
Learn the various software tools and utilities used to configure web services on a Linux
host.
You'll find out what the different use cases are for Apache, Squid, NGINX.
You'll learn how to set up virtual hosts, proxies, when to use a reverse proxy and how
to manage SSL and load balancing.
You'll also get some insights in Apache metrics and the differences between Apache
and NGINX.
We'll have a link in the show notes to this course or go to a cloudguru.com and search
for Linux Web Services, a cloudguru.com and the course Linux Web Services.
So new drives, of course, mean that it's time to start figuring out where to plug
stuff in and rebuild servers and just generally get my ducks in a row.
Right?
Sure.
So before I went to England, I threw in the new motherboard, the ASRock Rack motherboard
that I wrote the blog post about and I mentioned on the show.
It looked really good.
I think we talked about it for a bit and I almost wanted to order one.
Yeah.
Well, unfortunately, I've discovered what I think is quite a big flaw in that motherboard.
Uh-oh.
Yeah, it's to do with how the PCIe lanes get shared out.
So it doesn't sound like a big deal except for the fact that I want to have about three
or four different NVMe M.2 drives in there as well as a PCIe U.2 NVMe drive as well plus
my HBA card.
So by the time I've done that, I've used up quite a lot of PCIe lanes and the real
kicker was I tested something called PCIe bifurcation.
And what that means is I can take the 16x slot and split it into three or four different
slices.
So I could take, I have a PCIe card that has four M.2 slots on it and I can take my 16x
basically graphics card slot and turn that into four M.2 slots.
In this case, it was actually only three because of how the lanes worked.
So when I did all the testing before I went to England, I plugged everything in and it
all worked and I was like, oh, brilliant, I can use this motherboard in my server, replacing
one that had a lot more PCIe lanes that was a dual Xeon, et cetera, et cetera.
Trouble was I didn't actually put something in the fourth and final PCIe slot.
Until now, what happened?
Until now.
So before I went to England, I did that and I noticed that one of the NVMe drives wasn't
showing up as part of my ZFS mirror that I have for my Docker app data.
And I was like, ah, screw it, I'm getting on a plane tomorrow.
I'll deal with it when I get back.
Turned out when you put something into that final slot, the PCIe switch inside the motherboard
turns that first slot from a 16 to an 8x slot, which means that bifurcation doesn't work.
But that took me all day to figure that out.
Right, and it's not like there's a little LED light that comes on that says, by the
way, bifurcation has been disabled.
You just got to really know how that motherboard works to figure that out.
So you must have assumed everything from hardware failure to firmware issues.
Was it digging through the motherboard manual where you finally put it together?
Yeah, I actually had to go and look at the flipping schematic
of the motherboard chipset layout.
It was only, honestly, once I plugged, so I went back to my Apple Genius Bar training
and unplugged everything and was like, right, I'm going to do a minimum viable system, right?
If I put something in this slot, does it work?
If I put something in that slot, does it work?
And everything on its own worked.
It was only when I put something in the final slot and I was like, oh, no.
And then did you try taking that thing in the final slot and putting it in its own
slot and see if it works on its own?
Yeah, it did.
Yeah, that's what you got to do, that's what you got to do.
And then I was just like, shit, this means that there's a bug in the BIOS
or there's something wrong with how the PCIe routing works.
So then I went and read the manual for far too long and figured it out and I was like, oh, crap.
So, I mean, it's still a good motherboard, right?
It's kind of an edge case.
Yeah, but I mean, there's only three PCIe slots on the damn thing anyway,
because it's a micro ATX board.
Yeah.
So would it have killed them to put an extra few lanes on it?
I know the platform's capable because my consumer level board has enough lanes to have two PCIe
slots and 2M.2 slots and 4M.
What I'm trying to say is they've cheaped out somewhere and it's just a frustrating
place to cheap out on a server grade motherboard.
Yeah, you would think that's just it.
That is just it.
Like if there was going to be a situation where you end up using or needing as much PCIe possible,
it's probably more likely to be in a server scenario than pretty much any desktop
scenario, except for gaming machines.
And the upshot is, right, I've gone from, instead of having a two terabyte MVME mirror,
ZFS mirror for all my Docker app data, I've gone down to a single ZFS drive,
two terabyte MVME drive.
It's backed up to my backup server.
So if anything happens, which funny story, I accidentally wiped one of the drives,
one of the two terabyte drives that had a couple of VMs on it and my home assistant install on it.
Oh no.
That's part of my troubleshooting because I saw another PCIe MVME drive pop up and I was like,
that's it, why isn't ZFS seeing it?
I'll just try wiping the partition table.
Like that's going to work.
Oh no.
So your home assistant was down for a while.
Yeah, it was down for about a day.
Yeah.
Oh no.
And then it's a good test because I was able to test the backups of several different things.
You know, I used Syncoid to replicate to my local backup and really it just vindicated
why I have an onsite backup as well as offsite.
Because restoring the three, 400 gigabytes over the LAN, over gigabit, was an hour.
Whereas doing it from my dad's in England would have taken me weeks.
Yeah.
It's not complete just having one, but having both, that's really where I feel comfortable.
And you're right, it's, oh man, I can't even imagine how stressed I would be if I wiped
out home assistant because it's kind of become integral to how the RV functions these days.
So it would be like systems are offline and everything's running on manual mode.
I don't know.
Well, we have motion sensor lights in the kitchen and I walked in the kitchen in the
evening, I was like, why aren't the damn lights turning on?
Oh, and then the conversation with the wife has to be pretty awkward too.
Like that's, oh, she knew something was up.
I think she calls it a nerd rage.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
Right.
Of course.
She must've been, she must've been aware something was going down just from that, but you know,
I just like, uh, cause it's not, it's, it's the, the house isn't working.
There's that factor, which is embarrassing.
Then there's the fact that you're the one that set it all up.
So it operates like that.
And then there's the fact that you're the one that just broke the very thing that you
set up that the whole house depends on to operate because I wrote a new partition table
on a drive.
Why would I do that?
It's one of those things you do it in the moment and you're like, ah, be fine.
You reboot.
And then it says ZFS pool, Intel, two terabyte MVME not found, you know, like, oh no, oh
no.
Cause you know, instantly that that's just the rest of the evening gone.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
That, that is such a sinking feeling and it's, it's like, okay, I have backups, but in that
very moment, like it's all on those backups, you know, are they up to date?
No, actually a couple of them weren't.
So I read IRC bouncer that I used to get on the Red Hat VPN and stuff like that.
The last backup of that, that I had was actually from July.
So I had to, uh, lose three or four months worth of history there with an IRC and stuff
like that, which was a bit frustrating because quite often when I'm working a support case
for a customer or something, um, tip bits will come through IRC when I'm talking to
the support engineer and it's actually a very useful resource and I've lost four or five
months of that now, so let that be a lesson to your kids.
Make sure your backups are current.
We should have like a tagline at the outro every episode and go check your backups.
Cause you and I both been there.
Yes.
And thank God for the home assistant Google drive integration.
Oh my goodness.
Yeah.
Just import a new home assistant image into Proxmox using a script that's on GitHub.
So it takes literally a minute and then apply the full restore using the Google drive backup
plugin and it says, if nothing happened, it's just amazing.
That's sweet.
That's nice.
Now it's so easy to get working on Proxmox.
I do want to try that someday.
Backblaze.com slash SSH.
Get peace of mind knowing your files are backed up securely in the cloud with Backblaze.
If you have it on your laptop and your PC, and maybe you have it on a NAS, that's essentially
only having one copy.
That's what I love about this offer from Backblaze.
You get a free trial, no fees.
You get a free trial, no credit card required.
Unlimited computer backup for Macs and PCs.
Just $7 a month.
Your documents, your music, your photos, your videos, your drawings, your projects.
All your data.
And the nice thing too, you can restore from anywhere.
Not only is that just handy, but maybe one day even necessary.
And if you've got a lot of data, they also offer a restore by mail option.
It's a pretty slick system.
And if you're worried about getting files from your phone, don't worry.
They got you covered there.
And if you want extended retention, they got you covered for $2 a month more right there too.
Over 50 billion files have been restored for Backblaze customers.
You know it works.
So go get a fully featured, no credit card required trial at Backblaze.com.
slash SSH.
That's right.
Backblaze.com.
slash SSH.
You know, that lets them know where you came from and it supports the show.
Go there, check it out.
You know Backblaze is legitimate.
You know they are the best in the business.
And now it's a great opportunity for you to support the show and get a free trial
with no credit card required.
It's a win-win.
Backblaze.com.
slash SSH.
So it seems like a lot of reworking things and you were telling me before the
show that you kind of use that opportunity to get your documentation game up.
And you may have kind of put together what you could almost call a self-hosted
Notion setup.
Yeah, I think we'll cover this in a lot more detail probably next episode.
I'm still working out some of the rough corners, but the rough gist is this.
I've been using a documentation app called Obsidian recently as part of this
whole new Zettelkasten Rome research foam in VS code.
Don't forget Emacs org mode.
Emacs org Rome, which I have used for a lot of our show notes actually and I
still love, but Emacs is just a pain, isn't it?
I'm sorry, audience.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, send your hate mail to Alan at Jupiter Broadcasting.com.
Hey, to be fair, you gave it a legit go.
I did.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just it just breaks a bit too often when I want to sit down
and take notes.
Unfortunately, that's not so.
Yeah.
C'est la vie.
So yes, I'm using Obsidian, which is a free.
I think it's open source and Notion.
I should say is like the new game in note-taking.
It's an all-in-one note-taker where you can embed embed spreadsheets
and wikis and obviously notes and drawings and it's a monster electron
app and it also has a web service and it has native iOS and Android
apps and it promises to be what like several different note-taking
apps are all in one place.
And of course it has team integration and business stuff and all of
that, but it's a service.
It's not something you can run yourself.
And you know, as well as I do that you probably have fragments of
notes in about eight different apps that you've tried over the
last 10 years and getting the data out of these proprietary services
is just very difficult, you know, and the thing that I really love
about Obsidian, there's lots of others coming up as well as one
called LogSec SEQ go and have a look at that if you're interested.
But the thing I love about Obsidian is it does everything in
markdown files.
There you go.
So is it storing them just all on the file system locally in plain
text on your disk?
Yep.
So it really even has Joplin beat in that regard because for some
reason and this pisses me off because Joplin is so close.
It scrambles the file names in Joplin.
Like if you've ever looked at the plain text files on disk from
Joplin, it's just, you know, it's 32 characters of complete gibberish
and it's so close Joplin is so close, but if they fix that one
thing, they're like ID database ID file names or something, but
it sounds like you're kind of cooking something that's a little
more complete even that's like web component search component
all of that.
Yeah.
The really nice thing about Notion is that there's a little check
box you can select in the corner that says make this note public
and when I was working on my photography article for Ars Technica
a few months ago, I really gave Notion a full try just to get
the experience and I've got to say it was fantastic.
Actually, I mean apart from the fact that it my data is now
hostage in that system and the fact that I could share notes
with, you know, the editors are ours and they could, you know,
make comments and it was like it was like Google Docs but on
steroids because it I could it would it's hard to explain but
I really really enjoyed the experience.
I could definitely see that especially in working, you know,
with like an outlet like publishing.
Yeah, for sure.
So something like that would be great and I could version
things and it had an iOS app and you know, lots of good
reasons. So I'm pairing Obsidian with, you know, just creates
a directory of markdown files.
I've mentioned this on the show before but MKDocs just reads
a directory of markdown files to create a self-hosted Wiki
but to connect the two in the middle, you probably want some
kind of a continuous integration build system thing and for
that I've been trying out something called Drone connected
with Git T lately and I'll go into full details probably in
the next episode, but definitely in a blog post over the
next two weeks explaining how I go about connecting the two.
I've actually already written the first part of that blog
post series, which is how to connect MKDocs and DroneCI
together. So the next part will be how how I use a couple
of plugins in MKDocs to really make some of the cool stuff
in Obsidian like the Wiki linking and the back linking stuff
all kind of work as part of the website as well.
It's really slick.
I've been using it for the last few days since the weekend
to document which hard drives in which slot which ZigBee
button I've put in which room all this kind of stuff and
I am really for the first time feeling like this might be
a long-term Wiki solution that I can use my wife can actually
use. I'm really pretty jazzed on this one to be honest.
Well, then I look forward to hearing more about it.
You gave me a little demonstration before the show and
it is very cool.
And what I like about the entire pipeline is you keep the
data on your land the entire time.
So it is something I could replicate and use off-grid,
which is something I'm always looking for.
Absolutely.
Yeah, and you've got the website component so you could
pull it up on your phone where you wherever you are, you
know, a lot of these note-taking apps Emacs is a perfect
example doing that on mobile.
It's just a train wreck, you know, an Obsidian has an iOS
app as I mentioned, I think they're working on a Google
Play version of the app as well.
And obviously I've got Obsidian on the desktop so I can
do my editing in a real first-class editor unlike some kind
of random Wiki software, which is honestly where things
like tiddly Wiki have fallen down for me as the editor
just doesn't do it.
I still use tiddly Wiki and I've got a lot of useful
information in there that I'm migrating over.
Hmm, but the long-term review of tiddly Wiki is my wife
doesn't use it because it's putting images in it's just I
had to create an entry in the Wiki of how to use the Wiki
to add images to the Wiki.
Yeah, that sounds about right.
Not a good indictment.
When you were showing it to me earlier.
I noticed that you had a plug-in to generate really
quick and nice-looking markdown table.
So is there a pretty healthy like community plug-in ecosystem
around Obsidian?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, there was an episode of the Connected podcast on
Relay FM where one of the guys goes into basically how
he's creating his own basically his own editor inside Obsidian
to work with his own workflow that publishes posts and does
all sorts of crazy stuff.
Oh wow.
I would honestly liken the community plug-in ecosystem
to Emacs.
It started off as just an editor, but it's very quickly becoming
a bit of a cult and lots of people are writing stuff that
will run all sorts of crazy stuff inside Obsidian and I'm
only two or three days in at this point, so I can only imagine
how in a couple of months I'll be doing all sorts of wacky
wild and wonderful stuff.
And Obsidian is 100% free for personal use.
No account required.
You get access to the plugins and the API.
There are a couple of paid versions, which I imagine is
also kind of a nice way to support development.
You get access like early builds and then there's also a
commercial version and even there it's 50 bucks.
Like it's worth the pricing is really is really fair.
I like this model and I've heard people that you and I both
really respect in our community talk really highly of Obsidian,
but it does definitely strike me as a power tool Alex like
it's not it's not a casual notes app something like simple
note is or the notes app that's built into your phone OS.
It's like it's a power tool of for notes if you want it to
be I mean it could just be completely atomic unlinked set
of Markdown files.
That would be nice still the magic of it though is if you
do start connecting everything together, you know, I've got
a page here that has all of my ZigBee buttons listed, but
then I connect to a separate page elsewhere that then says
you know that ZigBee button is an Ikea trad free and I connect
to another note about how to set up an Ikea trad free button
not as part of the original ZigBee note, but as its own
separate atomic thing that just lives in its own space but
has a backlink to the ZigBee stuff.
It's kind of hard to explain but this this whole Zettel custom
linking notes and organic research type thing.
It's very popular in academia, but I'm finding it very useful
for technical documentation as well.
Linode.com slash SSH go there to get $100 and 60 day credit
on a new account and you go there to support the show Linodes
where we host everything and Linodes also my lab in the cloud
if I'm trying something out if there's a project that we
want to evaluate or also if we want to have something to
just send the audience to go bang on for a bit. I build that
on Linode.
I mean my ISP's connection is not up for that job anyways,
and it's not like I'm going to go rack something in a colo
somewhere like I did back in the early aughts.
Now, I'm going I'm going to go to Linode and you can't do
you can get $100 and 60 day credit on a new account.
That's Linodes way of saying you can really try it out.
It's not like, you know 15 bucks you're going to use for
a little bit and just get first impressions $100.
You can really try out Linode and see why we use it.
See why we put our production software up there too.
It's not just R&D.
It's production as well.
Go try out Alma Linux and Rocky Linux if you're evaluating
different CentOS releases.
There's all kinds of things you can do if there's so many
opportunities to learn and they have great add-ons like S3
compatible object storage cloud firewalls DDoS protection
VLAN support and they're even rolling out bare metal servers.
How about that?
The best part though, the pricing 30 to 50% cheaper than
the major hypervisors out there.
They just want to lock you into their crazy custom platforms.
Anyways, plus Linode has excellent performance 11 data centers
around the world tons of great guides and the best customer
service in the business.
So sign up today and support the show Linode.com slash SSH.
That's Linode.com slash SSH.
Here we are in November and what does a new month mean means
a new home assistant release.
Yeah, it does just when you got the last one installed.
Hopefully 90 contributors over a thousand pull requests.
Let's there's a lot going on now with this project 67,000
lines added 29 basically 30,000 lines of code removed.
They call it a big release a lot of hacktoberfest contributions
were in this one over a thousand different contributors to
this release just the core to not the documents.
The front-end stuff just the core home assistant release had
a thousand over a thousand contributors.
Wow.
I mean that makes me wonder how it even worked before.
I mean think about like managing that just going through it
and making sure all that stuff's of certain quality.
It's a heroic workload.
No wonder Frank's a bit grumpy sometimes a you know, it seems
like such a nice guy on the streams.
Yeah, he is really I think sometimes we paint him in a bad
light, but like you say when you see him actually in person
and talking on the streams very articulate guy, obviously
very smart.
So yeah, he he told a story that you know, really demonstrated
how much he really does care about the user experience.
So, you know, they rolled out that new tuya integration that
they worked with the tuya cloud folks and there was some
problems and people are having a rough time of it.
And so Frank sees that and he goes to his local stores and
he fills up shopping carts full of tuya enabled devices crazy
things like little one-off buttons cubes cameras doorbells
all different kinds of lights Christmas decorations all sorts
of stuff and brings it all home and sits there like just a
champ and gets through all kinds of compatibility issues and
just adds tons of devices.
So some of that work is landing in this release and I think
this release as well as a fix for time zone changes.
There was a bug that caused like a lot of CPU usage when the
time zone change kicked in which has already happened to our
friends in Europe.
They did release a hotfix mid cycle.
That's why you may have seen additional update come down but
this includes that hotfix as well.
So you might want to do that and you'll like this speaking
of links Alex you can now give devices links out to like the
W led page for configuration or if it's a device that needs
configuration it'll link right to it or if the device has
like a local control panel.
Now you won't have to go figure out what its IP is by searching
your DHCP logs like I do home assistant will just generate
a link to the management UI if it knows it and you can just
find it right there in the device screen, which is nice.
The icon picker has landed and it's pretty great.
They did a good job.
That is legit a very low priority feature, but boy, does it
make a big difference?
Yeah, and you know, if you haven't done this yet listener
Alex and I love this but take a minute with some, you know,
some evening when you're you know, you're kind of watching
TV, but it's not something you're super into.
I don't know whenever you got some downtime and go through
and add icons to your end, you know to your entries and get
everything with its own custom icon.
What kind of light it is heaters fans.
It really makes it nice and it makes it easier to sort through
your stuff at a quick glance and they've really done a good
job of making this thing sort through like over 6,000 icons
in just seconds.
It's super impressive.
Just a couple other things.
I'll mention they've added support for WebRTC video streams.
Home assistant now will recognize a WebRTC stream as a camera
source, but there is a catch.
It's only active when your browser is viewing it and pulling
it in because it's actually your browser that is establishing
the WebRTC PDP video stream, but you can you can embed it
and have it in a card and home assistant can help facilitate
that an example of a device where this is actually kind of
useful is the nest doorbell actually provides video via WebRTC
and so now you could pull that into home assistant if you
got a nest doorbell, that's pretty cool.
I also saw something about the home assistant Amber that's
coming up.
Yeah, man.
Well, they so it's funded good.
Yeah, they had about 2500 ish backers raised half a million
dollars.
They were having and are having some problem sourcing their
POE chip.
So they're switching to a different chip, but there are some
first hands-on of the prototype.
It's bigger than I expected, but it looks really good.
And there's some really special things that the home assistant
crew did on the board.
Like they drove little they like hand drew it's printed on
there, but it looks like it's hand-drawn, but I'm sure it's
not to the to like different chips on the board and they wrote
on there what they do in this really cute little way.
So it's a really nice touch.
The home assistant Amber is looks like it's going to be a
really nice piece of hardware to run home assistant and they
I think I think they're pretty happy with the prototype so
far and they they've shipped out to a couple of YouTubers to
take a look at them.
So if you search out on YouTube, you can find some hands-ons
with the amber.
Yeah, so that maybe we need to up our YouTube game.
We need to get our hands on some of this gear, you know policies
in the California area.
Maybe we just need to like take him out for beers or something
and maybe yeah, yeah, they also made a big stink out of making
sure everybody knew that next month's going to be the state
of the Union on December 11th at 11 a.m.
Pacific time.
They say it will be newsworthy whatever that means.
I'm going to try to make it.
I'll try to make it and I'll let you know there's you know,
a lot they say going in to that release which seems impossible
since this one had so much but I I really appreciate all of
the hard work they're doing.
They've also reorganized some of the entity screens and just
a couple other nice little changes where if you are somebody
out there that's actually using the automatically generated
Home Assistant Lovelace dashboard, you're going to see some
improvements there to come in your way.
Yeah, those device categories are really nice.
So rather than having every single parameter about a device
listed under just one tab, it will separate out stuff like
the battery percentage or the RSS I stuff that you really
don't need to know most of the time from like the main toggle
switch, for example, that would be in its own category now.
Really nice small change that one.
Yeah, and I actually still have just I've been pushing it
as far as I can.
I am still using the auto-generated Lovelace dashboard
on my Home Assistant blue here in the really how many millions
of little circles do you have at the top of that thing?
I should look I should tell you.
There is some for sure, but I've been trying to stick with
it. I almost broke this last week.
I really did but then they had this update and I thought well
I got to see this.
Oh, actually, there's no circles along the top on the now
they are in fact, they've read they've this part of the update
only two of them are now on the auto-generated dashboard and
they're in a different spot now totally laid out a little bit
different.
I remember I disabled the auto-generated dashboard when I
added my unify integration and it was a little bit different
version and it showed me every single Wi-Fi device that had
ever connected to my Wi-Fi network in that view at the top
and I was like, I'll screw this.
Yeah, my dashboard is currently telling me that the office
HP Officejet Pro in my office has 70% ink and it's telling
me that for each one of the ink cartridges and I just don't
yeah, yeah, you need to know that right now, by the way,
it's not currently printing just so you know, okay.
All right.
I was worried. Well, as always a big thanks to our site
reliability engineers the subscribers that make this show
possible.
We really do appreciate every single one of you and you
know, the more of you there are the less ad reads that we
have to do, you know, so a big thanks to all of our SREs.
Yeah, and they also get an extended post show.
Don't forget they get a little more show self-hosted that
show slash SRE.
Oh, yeah, my dad's looking at buying a new house and he's
going to be buying one out in the boonies potentially.
And so we're going to get your thoughts on Starlink in the
post show this week.
Oh, yeah, we can talk about that.
Also, we'd love to have you email us contact us.
I don't know feedback us give us your thoughts.
Maybe there's a project you love or you have feedback on
something we talked about today.
You can go to self-hosted dot show slash contact.
That is the place to get in touch with us and find me on
Twitter.
I am at Chris LAS is feedback of verb feedback us.
Yeah, I think it can be, you know, apparently it is now.
What are you doing?
When you send back feedback your feedback in right?
Okay, I'm not sure that's how that works.
You can go and feedback me on Twitter at ironic badger and
the show is at self-hosted show.
All right.
Thank you so much for listening to this episode.
Oh and links to everything we talked about at self-hosted
dot show slash 57.